Previously, we defined and
called our first function.
It didn't require any information
from outside the function, but
other functions might.
This means we need to talk about
using parameters in functions.
In Python, a parameter is an object that
is included in a function definition for
use in that function.
Parameters are accepted into a function
through the parentheses after
a function name.
The function that we created in the last
video isn't taking in any parameters.
Now, let's revisit another function
called range() that does use parameters.
If you recall,
the range() function generates a sequence of
numbers from a start point to
the value before the stop point.
Therefore,range() does include
parameters for the start and
stop indices that each
accept an integer value.
For instance,
it could accept integers 3 and 7.
This means the sequence it
generates will run from 3 to 6.
In our previous example,
we wrote a function that displayed
a welcome message when someone logged in.
It would be even more welcoming if
we included the employee's name with
the message.
Let's define a function with a parameter
so we can greet employees by name!
When we define our function,
we'll include the name of the parameter
that our function depends on.
We place this parameter, the name
variable, inside the parentheses.
The rest of the syntax stays the same.
Now, let's go to the next line and
indent so
we can tell Python what
we want this function to do.
We want it to print a message that welcomes
the employee using the name that's
passed into the function.
Bringing this variable into our print
statement requires a few considerations.
Like before, we start with
the welcome message we want to print.
In this case, though,
we're not stopping our message after
we tell them they're logged in.
We want to continue and
add the employee's name to the message.
That's why we're placing
a comma after "You're logged in"
and then adding the name variable.
Since this is a variable and
not a specific string,
we don't place it in quotation marks.
Now that our function is set up,
we're ready to call it with the specific
argument that we want to pass in.
In Python, an argument is the data brought
into a function when it is called.
For example,
earlier, when we passed 3 and
7 into the range() function,
these were arguments.
In our case, let's imagine we want to
greet an employee named Charley Patel.
We'll call our greet_employee()
function with this argument.
And when we run this, Charley Patel
gets a personalized welcome message!
In this example, we only have one
parameter in our function. But
we can have more.
Let's explore an example of this.
Maybe instead of a single name parameter,
we have a parameter for
first name and
a second parameter for last name.
If so, we would need to
adjust the code like this.
First, when we define the function,
we include both parameters and
separate them with a comma.
Then, when we call it, we also include
two arguments. This time we're greeting
someone with the first name of Kiara and
with the last name of Carter.
These are also separated by a comma.
Let's run this and welcome Kiara Carter!
As we just explored,
using more than one parameter
just requires a few adjustments.
Great work in this video!
We learned a lot about working
with parameters in a function.
This understanding is something you'll
need as you continue to write Python
scripts.